resume.md, before:

Laurent CORBES
==============

----

>  Specialist of GNU/Linux OS (Debian, Ubuntu), Cloud solutions,
>  Virtualisation, Storage solutions, High Available and Scalable infrastructures.
>  Media Streaming technologies.
>

----

Knowledges
----------

FIXME: software, programming langagues, services, cloud systems, etc...



Corporate Experience
--------------------

Since January 2015
:   *Architect C4M solutions, **Arkena** (http://www.arkena.com/).*

    Software Architect and Tech leader of Arkena new Cloud4Media product called Harmony. An orchestrator service designed to help media company to build and run complex Media contents workflows.
    It's a Service Oriented Architecture built using an Enterprise Service Bus that route REST APIs messages between a BPMN 2.0 workflow engine, micro services and external systems. This design allow an easy integration of our service into heterogeneous client environments.

    Architect on Arkena OTT (Over The Top) projects. Technical study of the project with client and project manager;  Definition of the development requirements. Engineering of the technical infrastructure: network interconnections, cloud resources (servers, network, storage), technical systems (transcoders, storages, ...). Design of Harmony workflows driving the OTT service backend, transformation of client mezzanine media, publishing on CDN networks and report of informations to client backoffice systems.

November 2013 - January 2015
:   *Senior System and Network engineer, **Arkena** (http://www.arkena.com/).*

    Engineering of a cloud native Database Service. Support Mysql and Postgresql backends. Built to be highly available on several POPs using BGP, load balancing services, streaming replication between databases and database proxy systems. The service totaly abstract to users the internal complexity by giving them a single database endpoint (user/password@url@db) and we allocate a place in a server cluster depending on needed resources by the database.

    Deployment and Engineering of Arkena POPs infrastructure in industrial way. Design standard rack installation methods and schema; simple management access and sharing, management portal for ressources allocation. Migration of existing hardware and POPs to new models.


September 2012 - November 2013
:   *Manager Operation infrastructure team, **SmartJog** (http://www.smartjog.com/).*

    Management of the team operating the Cloud infrastructure of SmarJog. It cover the installation and management of all the assets (server, storage and network). The SmartJog cloud is composed of 12 POPs in Europe and United States.

    Operation of global network, private fiber and public AS43646 IP network interconnected on several public and private IP peerings and multiple Tier1 operators IP transits.

    Deployement and Operation of the Cloud service with more than 400 hypervisors and 100 more physical servers. Running Linux/KVM Virtualisation software and our own management stack based on libvirt on top of it (CloudControl).

    Maintenance of the base infrastructure services provided to other SmartJog and TDF services: DNS root and resolvers, Email infrastructure, internal networks interconnections and firewall, Web Hosting service, Geolocalised Load balancing services.

    Level3 support and expertise on all company services (CDN, Transfer, ...)

March 2011 - September 2012
:   *Project and architect manager, **SmartJog** (http://www.smartjog.com/).*

    Management of projects aimed to develop SmartJog technologies to other TDF (http://www.tdf.fr/) subsidiaries. Mainly extend CDN services to several European countries (Finland, Germany, Hungary). SmartJog provided a managed CDN platform to other companies that run it (kind of CDN as a Service).

    Define and manage integration of SmartJog CDN services with partners CDNs. In order to provide an extended network coverage and better user experience we integrate with internal FAI CDNs. A redirector router based on client informations securely redirect the request to the best edge server. Either our own network shortest edge or a partner one.

January 2004 - March 2011
:   *System and Network Engineer, **SmartJog** (http://www.smartjog.com/).*

    Administration of the SmartJog Delivery platform. This include maintenance of a 40 servers production platform on debian GNU/Linux hosting databases, vpn servers, tomcat application servers, moniroting systems and delivery software systems.

    Maintainer of the SmartJog RXTX receiver. This is an appliance product based on Debian GNU/Linux distribution tuned with our specific software, installation system, vpn infrastructure and remote monitoring capabilities.

    Software developer on SmartJog Acceleratted transfer software (RBC) version 2. Add several features to improve our performances: multi connections, bandwidth limitation, checkpoints.

    Engineering and administration of a satellite IP delivery infrastructure. We run our own transponders on Intelsat satellites sky. Using DVB-S2 protocol we operate up to 200Mbps of satelite network capacity worldwide.

    Engineering and administration of a redundant, secure and replicated storage solution for long term archive of Media contents. The service offer 1PetaByte of capacity replicated between Paris and Los Angeles. It is optimized in order to store big files (+30GB) and periodically check contents checksum to ensure reliability.

    Engineering of a private Cloud hosting service. Based on Xen it hosted all SmartJog infrastructure allowing us to make or platform flexible to fullfill our expended needs. In 2010 it aggregate 30 Xen hypervisors hosting ~250 Vms. It then evolve to Linux/KVM solution.

    Engineering of a Content Delivery Network infrastructure. SmartJog acquire TV-radio.com and develop it's own CDN to replace Akamai. It provided the following services (mp3 live streaming (icecast), http acceleration (nginx), flash live streaming (ffserver), flash OD streaming (lighttpd mod_flv + mod_mp4)).

October 2002 - December 2003
:   *System administrator, **Dolphian** (http://www.dolphian.com/).*

    Administration of a 10 servers production platform running FreeBSD and Debian GNU/Linux.

    Creation of a Certificate Authority and associated PKI that allowed automatic creation and distribution of SSL Certificates for a secure proxy service.


Education
---------

1999-2004
:   *Epita (http://www.epita.fr)*

    Graduate Engineer in computer science.
    SRSA (System, Network, Security and Architect) branch.

Activities and interests
------------------------

Hobbies
:
 FIXME: sport (sometimes), video games, reading

----

> <lc@glot.net> • Paris - FRANCE • 35 years old
> github: lcaflc, twitter: @lcaflc

Commit message:

Add hobbies and note about Arkena

resume.md, after:

Laurent CORBES
==============

----

>  Specialist of GNU/Linux OS (Debian, Ubuntu), Cloud solutions,
>  Virtualisation, Storage solutions, High Available and Scalable infrastructures.
>  Media Streaming technologies.
>

----

Knowledges
----------

FIXME: software, programming langagues, services, cloud systems, etc...



Corporate Experience
--------------------

Since January 2015
:   *Architect C4M solutions, **Arkena** (http://www.arkena.com/).*

    Software Architect and Tech leader of Arkena new Cloud4Media product called Harmony. An orchestrator service designed to help media company to build and run complex Media contents workflows.
    It's a Service Oriented Architecture built using an Enterprise Service Bus that route REST APIs messages between a BPMN 2.0 workflow engine, micro services and external systems. This design allow an easy integration of our service into heterogeneous client environments.

    Architect on Arkena OTT (Over The Top) projects. Technical study of the project with client and project manager;  Definition of the development requirements. Engineering of the technical infrastructure: network interconnections, cloud resources (servers, network, storage), technical systems (transcoders, storages, ...). Design of Harmony workflows driving the OTT service backend, transformation of client mezzanine media, publishing on CDN networks and report of informations to client backoffice systems.

November 2013 - January 2015
:   *Senior System and Network engineer, **Arkena** (http://www.arkena.com/).*

    SmartJog, QBrick, PSN and Cognacq-Jay Image merge in April 2014 and become Arkena.

    Engineering of a cloud native Database Service. Support Mysql and Postgresql backends. Built to be highly available on several POPs using BGP, load balancing services, streaming replication between databases and database proxy systems. The service totaly abstract to users the internal complexity by giving them a single database endpoint (user/password@url@db) and we allocate a place in a server cluster depending on needed resources by the database.

    Deployment and Engineering of Arkena POPs infrastructure in industrial way. Design standard rack installation methods and schema; simple management access and sharing, management portal for ressources allocation. Migration of existing hardware and POPs to new models.


September 2012 - November 2013
:   *Manager Operation infrastructure team, **SmartJog** (http://www.smartjog.com/).*

    Management of the team operating the Cloud infrastructure of SmarJog. It cover the installation and management of all the assets (server, storage and network). The SmartJog cloud is composed of 12 POPs in Europe and United States.

    Operation of global network, private fiber and public AS43646 IP network interconnected on several public and private IP peerings and multiple Tier1 operators IP transits.

    Deployement and Operation of the Cloud service with more than 400 hypervisors and 100 more physical servers. Running Linux/KVM Virtualisation software and our own management stack based on libvirt on top of it (CloudControl).

    Maintenance of the base infrastructure services provided to other SmartJog and TDF services: DNS root and resolvers, Email infrastructure, internal networks interconnections and firewall, Web Hosting service, Geolocalised Load balancing services.

    Level3 support and expertise on all company services (CDN, Transfer, ...)

March 2011 - September 2012
:   *Project and architect manager, **SmartJog** (http://www.smartjog.com/).*

    Management of projects aimed to develop SmartJog technologies to other TDF (http://www.tdf.fr/) subsidiaries. Mainly extend CDN services to several European countries (Finland, Germany, Hungary). SmartJog provided a managed CDN platform to other companies that run it (kind of CDN as a Service).

    Define and manage integration of SmartJog CDN services with partners CDNs. In order to provide an extended network coverage and better user experience we integrate with internal FAI CDNs. A redirector router based on client informations securely redirect the request to the best edge server. Either our own network shortest edge or a partner one.

January 2004 - March 2011
:   *System and Network Engineer, **SmartJog** (http://www.smartjog.com/).*

    Administration of the SmartJog Delivery platform. This include maintenance of a 40 servers production platform on debian GNU/Linux hosting databases, vpn servers, tomcat application servers, moniroting systems and delivery software systems.

    Maintainer of the SmartJog RXTX receiver. This is an appliance product based on Debian GNU/Linux distribution tuned with our specific software, installation system, vpn infrastructure and remote monitoring capabilities.

    Software developer on SmartJog Acceleratted transfer software (RBC) version 2. Add several features to improve our performances: multi connections, bandwidth limitation, checkpoints.

    Engineering and administration of a satellite IP delivery infrastructure. We run our own transponders on Intelsat satellites sky. Using DVB-S2 protocol we operate up to 200Mbps of satelite network capacity worldwide.

    Engineering and administration of a redundant, secure and replicated storage solution for long term archive of Media contents. The service offer 1PetaByte of capacity replicated between Paris and Los Angeles. It is optimized in order to store big files (+30GB) and periodically check contents checksum to ensure reliability.

    Engineering of a private Cloud hosting service. Based on Xen it hosted all SmartJog infrastructure allowing us to make or platform flexible to fullfill our expended needs. In 2010 it aggregate 30 Xen hypervisors hosting ~250 Vms. It then evolve to Linux/KVM solution.

    Engineering of a Content Delivery Network infrastructure. SmartJog acquire TV-radio.com and develop it's own CDN to replace Akamai. It provided the following services (mp3 live streaming (icecast), http acceleration (nginx), flash live streaming (ffserver), flash OD streaming (lighttpd mod_flv + mod_mp4)).

October 2002 - December 2003
:   *System administrator, **Dolphian** (http://www.dolphian.com/).*

    Administration of a 10 servers production platform running FreeBSD and Debian GNU/Linux.

    Creation of a Certificate Authority and associated PKI that allowed automatic creation and distribution of SSL Certificates for a secure proxy service.


Education
---------

1999-2004
:   *Epita (http://www.epita.fr)*

    Graduate Engineer in computer science.
    SRSA (System, Network, Security and Architect) branch.

Activities and interests
------------------------

**Sports**, Practice (not enough) mountain bike and tennis.

**Motorsport fan**, never miss a 24Hours of LeMans race.

----

> <lc@glot.net> • Paris - FRANCE • 35 years old
> github: lcaflc, twitter: @lcaflc
